seminal works.md, before:

George Boole, 1854
[The Laws of Thought](http://gutenberg.org/ebooks/15114)

Alan Turing, 1936
[On Computable Numbers](http://www.thocp.net/biographies/papers/turing_oncomputablenumbers_1936.pdf)

Claude Shannon, 1940
[A symbolic analysis of relay and switching circuits](http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/11173)

John von Neumann, 1945
[First Draft of a Report on the EDVAC](http://archive.computerhistory.org/resources/text/Knuth_Don_X4100/PDF_index/k-8-pdf/k-8-u2593-Draft-EDVAC.pdf)

Vannevar Bush, 1945
[As We Think](https://web.archive.org/web/20011201210444if_/http:/www.isg.sfu.ca:80/~duchier/misc/vbush/vbush.txt)

[Moore School Lectures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moore_School_Lectures), 1946  

Doug Englebart, 1968
[The Mother of All Demos](http://www.dougengelbart.org/firsts/dougs-1968-demo.html)

Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), 1968   
Curriculum '68   

Donald E. Knuth, 1968   
The Art of Computer Programming: Fundamental Algorithms   

Edsger Dijkstra, 1968
[Go-To Statement Considered Harmful](https://homepages.cwi.nl/~storm/teaching/reader/Dijkstra68.pdf)   
ACM journal, March 1968

Ted Nelson, 1974
[Computer Lib / Dream Machines](http://www.digibarn.com/collections/books/computer-lib/)
also [excerpt here](http://www.newmediareader.com/book_samples/nmr-21-nelson.pdf)

Commit message:

Added documentary on Doug Englebart

seminal works.md, after:

George Boole, 1854
[The Laws of Thought](http://gutenberg.org/ebooks/15114)

Alan Turing, 1936
[On Computable Numbers](http://www.thocp.net/biographies/papers/turing_oncomputablenumbers_1936.pdf)

Claude Shannon, 1940
[A symbolic analysis of relay and switching circuits](http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/11173)

John von Neumann, 1945
[First Draft of a Report on the EDVAC](http://archive.computerhistory.org/resources/text/Knuth_Don_X4100/PDF_index/k-8-pdf/k-8-u2593-Draft-EDVAC.pdf)

Vannevar Bush, 1945
[As We Think](https://web.archive.org/web/20011201210444if_/http:/www.isg.sfu.ca:80/~duchier/misc/vbush/vbush.txt)

[Moore School Lectures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moore_School_Lectures), 1946  

Doug Englebart, 1968
[The Mother of All Demos](http://www.dougengelbart.org/firsts/dougs-1968-demo.html)  
More info on Douglas Englebart: [The Augmentation of Douglas Englebart](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt8778694/)

Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), 1968   
Curriculum '68   

Donald E. Knuth, 1968   
The Art of Computer Programming: Fundamental Algorithms   

Edsger Dijkstra, 1968
[Go-To Statement Considered Harmful](https://homepages.cwi.nl/~storm/teaching/reader/Dijkstra68.pdf)   
ACM journal, March 1968

Ted Nelson, 1974
[Computer Lib / Dream Machines](http://www.digibarn.com/collections/books/computer-lib/)
also [excerpt here](http://www.newmediareader.com/book_samples/nmr-21-nelson.pdf)
