micros/ibmpcworkalikes.md, before:

# What they were
When IBM introduced the [IBM PC](pc-platform.md#the-pc) in 1981, many people knew that it would succeed on the IBM name alone.  As much of the machine was built
using off-the-shelf parts, it was fairly easy to create a "Workalike" machine that was very similar and could run MS-DOS.  These vendors
would frequently try to differentiate themselves by offering features that were better than what IBM offered.

Differences in the hardware meant, however, that these machines were not 100% IBM compatible and required Microsoft to create special
versions of MS-DOS that would run only on that piece of hardware.  Application software that bypassed standard MS-DOS calls and wrote directly
to the hardware would also need to be patched to run on the different hardware.  (e.g. A modified Lotus 1-2-3 was available for the 
Tandy 2000).  This was considered normal practice in the industry at the time, but consumers wanted to be able to buy the retail version 
of software and run it on their machine - not have to purchase a special, expensive version from the harfware vendor.

This meant these machines ultimately failed, and the importance of "100% IBM Compatible" was recognized.


# Notable models

## Tandy 2000
[Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tandy_2000)

Commit message:

Added HP 150 info and added to Tandy 2000

micros/ibmpcworkalikes.md, after:

# What they were
When IBM introduced the [IBM PC](pc-platform.md#the-pc) in 1981, many people knew that it would succeed on the IBM name alone.  As much of the machine was built
using off-the-shelf parts, it was fairly easy to create a "Workalike" machine that was very similar and could run MS-DOS.  These vendors
would frequently try to differentiate themselves by offering features that were better than what IBM offered.

Differences in the hardware meant, however, that these machines were not 100% IBM compatible and required Microsoft to create special
versions of MS-DOS that would run only on that piece of hardware.  Application software that bypassed standard MS-DOS calls and wrote directly
to the hardware would also need to be patched to run on the different hardware.  (e.g. A modified Lotus 1-2-3 was available for the 
Tandy 2000).  This was considered normal practice in the industry at the time, but consumers wanted to be able to buy the retail version 
of software and run it on their machine - not have to purchase a special, expensive version from the harfware vendor.

This meant these machines ultimately failed, and the importance of "100% IBM Compatible" was recognized.


# Notable models

## Tandy 2000
A much higher end machine than the PC: faster, more memory, higher capacity storage.  Tandy touted Lotus's claim that this was the best machine to run 123 on.   
[Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tandy_2000)   
[Infoworld review](https://books.google.com/books?id=wi4EAAAAMBAJ&lpg=PA74&pg=PA71#v=onepage&q&f=false)

## HP 150
This is a very neat all-in-one type design with 3.5" disks and a nice high-resolution 9" display with touchscreen technology!  It interfaced peripherals via the HP-IB (IEEE-488) bus.    
[Byte magazine review](https://archive.org/stream/byte-magazine-1984-11/1984_11_BYTE_09-12_New_Chips#page/n259/mode/2up)    
[Wikipedia artcile](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HP-150)
